[None][doc] Adding GPT-OSS Deployment Guide documentation (#6637)
NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM: docs/source/blogs/tech_blog/blog9_Deploying_GPT_OSS_on_TRTLLM.md

# Running a High Performance GPT-OSS-120B Inference Server with TensorRT-LLM

In the guide below, we will walk you through how to launch your own
high-performance TensorRT-LLM server for **gpt-oss-120b** for inference.
This guide covers both low-latency and max-throughput cases. 

The typical use case for **low-latency**, is when we try to maximize the number of tokens per second per user with a limited concurrency (4, 8 or 16 users). 

For **maximum throughput**, the goal is to maximize the amount of tokens produced per GPU per second. The former is an indication of how fast a system can produce tokens, the latter measures how many tokens a "chip" can generate per unit of time.

</br>

## Prerequisites

- 1x NVIDIA B200/GB200/H200 GPU (8x NVIDIA B200/H200 GPUs or 4x GB200 GPUs in a single node recommended for higher performance) 
- CUDA Toolkit 12.8 or later
- Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit installed
- Fast SSD storage for model weights
- Access to the gpt-oss-120b model checkpoint

> We have a forthcoming guide for getting great performance on H100, however the below guide focuses on the above GPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a forthcoming guide for getting great performance on H100, however this guide focuses on the above GPUs.
```

</br></br>

> ## Launching the TRTLLM docker container

Reviewer 2: Let's use TensorRT-LLM instead of TRTLLM.

The container image that you will use will be pulled from NVIDIA's NGC. This container is multi-platform and will run on both x64 and arm64 architectures: `nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:gpt-oss-dev`

Run the follow docker command to start the TensorRT-LLM container in interactive mode:

```bash
docker run --rm --ipc=host -it \
  --ulimit stack=67108864 \
  --ulimit memlock=-1 \
  --gpus all \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  -e TRTLLM_ENABLE_PDL=1 \
  -e TRT_LLM_DISABLE_LOAD_WEIGHTS_IN_PARALLEL=True \
  -v ~/.cache:/root/.cache:rw \
  nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:gpt-oss-dev \
  /bin/bash
```

</br>

This command:
- Automatically removes the container when stopped (`--rm`)
- Allows container to interact with the host's IPC resources and shared memory for optimal performance (`--ipc=host`)
- Runs the container in interactive mode (`-it`)
- Sets up shared memory and stack limits for optimal performance
- Maps port 8000 from the container to your host
- enables PDL for low-latency perf optimization

> - disables parallel weight loading 

Reviewer: why do we need this?

  --extra_llm_api_options low_latency.yaml \
  --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.75
```
</details>

<details> <summary>4x GB200/B200/H200</summary>

```bash
mpirun -n 1 --oversubscribe --allow-run-as-root \
trtllm-serve  openai/gpt-oss-120b \
  --host 0.0.0.0 \
  --port 8000 \
  --backend pytorch \
  --tp_size 4 \
  --ep_size 4 \
  --trust_remote_code \
  --extra_llm_api_options low_latency.yaml \
  --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.75
```
</details>

</br></br>

### Max-Throughput Use-Case

#### Creating the Extra Options Configuration

To run a server for max-throughput workloads, create a YAML configuration file,
`max_throughput.yaml`, as follows:

```yaml
cat <<EOF > max_throughput.yaml
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
    max_batch_size: 640
    enable_padding: true
stream_interval: 10
moe_config:
    backend: CUTLASS
EOF
```

> Note: If you are using NVIDIA H200 GPUs it is highly recommended to set the `moe_config.backend` to TRITON to use the OpenAI Triton MoE kernel. See the section [(H200 Only) Using OpenAI Triton Kernels for MoE](#h200-only-using-openai-triton-kernels-for-moe) for more details.

#### Launching TensorRT-LLM Serve

> To launch the TensorRT-LLM Server to serve the model with the **max throughput** config, run the following command. Commands for different GPU configures are provided (1xGPU, 8xGPU, 4xGPU):

Reviewer 2: By the end of the sentence, shouldn't it be `configs` or `configurations` instead of `configures`?

Author: Thanks for catching this. Should say `configurations`. Fixed it in both places

```bash
mpirun -n 1 --oversubscribe --allow-run-as-root \
trtllm-serve  openai/gpt-oss-120b \
  --host 0.0.0.0 \
  --port 8000 \
  --backend pytorch \
  --tp_size 8 \
  --ep_size 8 \
  --max_batch_size 640 \
  --trust_remote_code \
  --extra_llm_api_options max_throughput.yaml \
  --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.9
```
</details>

<details> <summary>4x GB200/B200/H200</summary>

```bash
mpirun -n 1 --oversubscribe --allow-run-as-root \
trtllm-serve  openai/gpt-oss-120b \
  --host 0.0.0.0 \
  --port 8000 \
  --backend pytorch \
  --tp_size 4 \
  --ep_size 4 \
  --max_batch_size 640 \
  --trust_remote_code \
  --extra_llm_api_options max_throughput.yaml \
  --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.9
```
</details>

</br></br>

This command:
- Maps port 8000 from the container to your host
- Uses the PyTorch backend and specifies the tensor and expert parallel sizes
- References the low latency or max throughput configuration file for extra options
- Configures memory settings for optimal performance
- Enables all GPUs with attention data parallelism for the max throughput scenario

The initialization may take several minutes as it loads and optimizes the models.

</br></br>

> ##  (Optional) Using the MXFP4 Checkpoints

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be the default?

For MXFP4 checkpoints, default quantization is `W4A8_MXFP4_MXFP8` for CUTLASS and TRTLLM backend and `W4A8_MXFP4_FP8` for Triton backend on Blackwell. Default quantization for MXFP4 checkpoints on Hopper is `W4A16_MXFP4`
You can override quantization by:

```bash
export OVERRIDE_QUANT_ALGO=W4A16_MXFP4
```

</br>

## (H200 Only) Using OpenAI Triton Kernels for MoE

> OpenAI ships a set of Triton kernels optimized for its MoE models. TensorRT-LLM can leverage these kernels for Hopper based GPUs like NVIDIA's H200 to gain significant speed-ups. The NGC TensorRT-LLM contrainer image mentioned above already includes the required kernel so you do not need to build or install it. It is highly recommended to enable them with the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenAI ships a set of Triton kernels optimized for its MoE models. TensorRT-LLM can leverage these kernels for Hopper based GPUs like NVIDIA's H200 for best performance. The NGC TensorRT-LLM container image mentioned above already includes the required kernels so you do not need to build or install them. It is highly recommended to enable them with the steps below:
```
